experiments/A1-BLE-Injection/ble-fake/README.md, before:

# A1 _ BLE Injection (Unbonded Characteristic)

**Goal**
Tampered Data will be forwarded to backend and spoofed ble peripheral will act as fake ble device of attacker

**Threats**
Tampered Data will be accepted on backend side
App will connect to attackers ble peripheral, app will subscribe to attackers gatt service and characteristic, attackers ble peripheral will notify app

**Precondition**
Not encrypted UUIds for both Service and Characteristics
Real Smartwatch has to be turned off 

**Procedure**
Attacker wants to know the UUIds for the Service and Characteristic. Does a bluetoothctl scan on. Gets bunch of MAC Addresses from devices? 
How can he pinpoint the target and pull the Service/Characteristics UUIDs using the BlueZ tools. :
	- Proximity (RSSI): the closest device usually has higher RSSI (less negative)scan 

so do a bluetooth scan --> scan for mac addresses
meanwhile do a btmon scan look for advertiser service uuids and char uuids --> you can actually see a lot there

attacker advertises fake ble peripheral --> connects to app --> app receives tampered payloads --> app sends these payloads to backend

**Success**


**Metrics**

**How to run the program**
sudo node index.js --name "HeartRate" --service "180d" --char "2a37"

Commit message:

update(A1-BLE-Injection): Specified README for Attack 1

experiments/A1-BLE-Injection/ble-fake/README.md, after:

# A1 _ BLE Injection
# Attack 1(Just Works Pairing / Legacy Pairing)

**Goal**
Prove that a spoofed BLE peripheral advertising the same service/characteristics UUIDs as a real device can trick an app into connecting, subscribing and
forwarding tampered health data to the backend **when LE Secure Connections is not in use (legacy pairing / Just Works)

**Threats**
- App connects to attacker peripheral and subcribes to GATT characteristics
- App forwards spoofed/tampered health data to backend

**Precondition**
- No LE Secure Connections on the peripheral (devices uses legacy pairing, Just Works or does not require pairing/encryption)
- ("Real Smartwatch" in our case Real Peripheral) is powererd on when Attacker scans for Service and Characteristics identifiers as well as the MAC Address of the real peripheral
- App scans on device name or service uuids for subscribing to GATT characteristics

**Procedure**
- Real BLE Peripheral advertises
- Attacker wants to know the UUIds for the Service and Characteristic in order to do that a **bluetoothctl scan on** will be done
- Attacker gets bunch of MAC Addresses from devices --> Pinpoints target through RSSI Proximity when the name is not clear (in our case name is very clear)
- Attacker advertises fake BLE Periperal

**Success**
- App connect to the Peripheral by scanning for the Service uuids
- App subcribes to the characteristic of the fake BLE device
- App receives tampered payloads
- Tampered payloads will be fowarded to Backend

**Metrics**
- Number of spoofed health data received from fake ble device
- Number of spoofed health data fowarded to backend

**How to run the program**
sudo node index.js --name "HeartRate" --service "180d" --char "2a37"
